Dynamic Resource Allocation : 

            1. Number of task has been decided based on block size. if block size is 200 then 200 task are required. Static allocation
            with fixed number of executors, cores per executors and memeory per executor may not be good solution when there are 
            multiple users submitting job in cluster.
            
            2. In Dynamic Resource Allocation Spark should remove executors when they are no longer used and 
            acquire executors when they are needed.
            
            3. There are 2 types of policy which will either remove or add executors 1. Request policy and 2 is Remove policy
            
            
            Request Policy : 
            
                 When there are number of pending task has to scheduled then spark application with dynamic resouce allocation 
                 enabled will request additional executors.
                 
                 Spark requests executors in rounds. The actual request is triggered when there have been 
                 pending tasks for spark.dynamicAllocation.schedulerBacklogTimeout seconds, and then triggered again 
                 every spark.dynamicAllocation.sustainedSchedulerBacklogTimeout seconds thereafter if the queue of pending tasks persists.
                 
                 Additionally, the number of executors requested in each round increases exponentially from the previous round. 
                 For instance, an application will add 1 executor in the first round, and then 2, 4, 8 and so on executors 
                 in the subsequent rounds.
                 
           Remove Policy :
           
                  Spark application will check how long an excetor is idle then remove it.
                  A Spark application removes an executor when it has been idle for 
                  more than spark.dynamicAllocation.executorIdleTimeout seconds.
                  

Graceful Decommission of Executors : 

                  Before dynamic allocation, a Spark executor exits either on failure or when the associated application has also exited.
                  Before application exit shuffle task may happen between executors then at the end all executors will be removed.
                  Here Executor state has been safely handled. 
                  
                  
                  With dynamic allocation, however, the application is still running when an executor is explicitly removed. 
                  If the application attempts to access state stored in or written by the executor, 
                  it will have to perform a recompute the state. This condition cause high latency. 
                  Thus, Spark needs a mechanism to decommission an executor gracefully by preserving its state before removing it.
                  
                  Below is the scenario where we have to handle graceful decomission of executors
                  
                  This requirement is especially important for shuffles. 
                  During a shuffle, the Spark executor first writes its own map outputs locally to disk, 
                  and then acts as the server for those files when other executors attempt to fetch them. 
                  In the event of stragglers, which are tasks that run for much longer than their peers, 
                  dynamic allocation may remove an executor before the shuffle completes, 
                  in which case the shuffle files written by that executor must be recomputed unnecessarily.
                  
                  The solution for preserving shuffle files is to use an external shuffle service, 
                  also introduced in Spark 1.2. 
                  This service refers to a long-running process that runs on each node of your cluster independently 
                  of your Spark applications and their executors. 
                  If the service is enabled, Spark executors will fetch shuffle files from the service instead of from each other. 
                  This means any shuffle state written by an executor may continue to be served beyond the executor’s lifetime.
                  
                  In addition to writing shuffle files, executors also cache data either on disk or in memory. 
                  When an executor is removed, however, all cached data will no longer be accessible. 
                  To mitigate this, by default executors containing cached data are never removed. 
                  You can configure this behavior with spark.dynamicAllocation.cachedExecutorIdleTimeout.
                  
                  
  What is External Shuffle Service
  
         At the suffle time executors will fetch required files from others and perform shuffle. In dynamic resource allocation model
         executors will be removed while application running based on executors idle time. this may lead to recomputation of executor 
         state and increase latency.
         when External Shuffle Service is enabled and when one executor requrire files then it will be fetched from this service not
         from other executor by this way it helps to remove the idle executor without problem.
                  
                 
                  
